
# GSNA 0.1.4.5  
* Development version  
* Added the ability to construct networks using Cohen's Kappa (*&kappa;*), which is the method employed by **DAVID**.
* Removed ./doc from .gitignore so that installation of vignette from GitHub would work.  


# GSNA 0.1.4.4  
* Development version  
* 1 and 2-color legends are now generated by `make1ColorLegend()` and `make2ColorLegend()` using `Matrix::image` rather than `raster::plotRGB()`, hence allowing removal of the obsolete **raster** package as a dependency and hopefully simplifying the package install process.   
* The `makeNodeSizeLegend()` now handles node sizes differently, such that node sizes in the legend are properly scaled when the images are scaled.  

# GSNA 0.1.4.3  
* Includes the ./man directory and .Rd files as part of the GitHub repository, so that installations from GitHub via `devtools::install_github()` will now include the manual pages, without the need to run `devtools::document()` or `roxygen2::roxygenize()`.  
* Adds tests for gsIntersectCounts() & lfisher_cpp(), and silences the messages for gsnAddPatheaysData() and gsnImportGenericPathways().  
* Includes the ./man directory and .Rd files as part of the GitHub repository, so that installations from GitHub via `devtools::install_github()` will now include the manual pages, without the need to run `devtools::document()` or `roxygen2::roxygenize()`.  
* GSNA documentation cannot currently be built roxygen2 version 7.3.2. A bug report has been submitted (https://github.com/r-lib/roxygen2/issues/1635).  
* The previous version of GSNA, version 0.1.4.2 was archived on CRAN due to failure to fix a memory overflow that occurred during package tests (see: https://cran-archive.r-project.org/web/checks/2024/2024-04-04_check_results_GSNA.html). Code from the **ragg** package was called when CRAN curators tested the code on CRAN's testing platform, which included a Linux environment with R packages linked with the **ASAN** library (Address Sanitizer). Although the **GSNA** package does not directly call any **ragg** functions, and has been confirmed to run on platforms from which the **ragg** library has been removed, when the package tests were run by the curators on the **ASAN** testing platform, a (fatal) a container overflow (memory access outside of allocated memory) resulted when **ragg** functions were called. This was presumably the result of an *optional* function call by one of the **GSNA** dependencies. This error was not reproducible on our development platforms, making it difficult to fix, so for the moment, **GSNA** development is targeted for GitHub distribution.  
* This is intended to be the last version with dependency on the obsolete **raster** library. (This may be the source of calls to the **ragg** library, see above.)  


# GSNA 0.1.4.2
* This version attempts to address a problem coming up with CRAN's development R linux platform tests, which identified a problem with validation of the HTML manual for gsnAddPathwayData & gsnAddPathwaysData that resulted in the note warning "Warning: trimming empty <dt>". The warning is not reproduced on r-hub builder or other uploadable R package build testing services, but these changes should remove the problematic documentation. 

# GSNA 0.1.4.1
* This is the fifth submission to CRAN.
* Spelling errors were fixed, including 'pakage' in DESCRIPTION, 'ATACSeq' which should be 'ATAC-Seq', 'Imagee' which should be 'Image' and a few others.

# GSNA 0.1.4  
* This is the fourth submission to CRAN.  
* Fixes were made to the 'Description' section of the 'DESCRIPTION' file, to apply the required single quote guidelines for package names, program names and API names only.  
* Unexported functions have @noRd tags added to suppress the generation of .Rd files.  
* The @examples tags have been removed for unexported functions, so that example code is not tested or run.  


# GSNA 0.1.3
* This is the third submission to CRAN.  
* It fixes numerous issues raised by the CRAN curator/moderator, including:  
  + Format issues in the DESCRIPTION file.  
  + Missing \value tag in gsnParedVsRawDistancePlot.Rd.  
  + @example tags in documentation for non-exported @noRd tagged functions were removed. The example code was retained in '@details'.  
  + Example code wrapped in \dontrun{} tags was either:
    - Removed and replaced with code updated with runnable code using example data.  
    - Removed altogether, generally in cases where additional external files would be required. (e.g. parsers for GMT (read_gmt()), DAVID (read_david_data_file()) file formats.) Example code may be re-added in the future once example data files are included.  
    - In some cases, examples needed to be wrapped in \donttest{} tags, due to long run-time or requirement of a network connection to download data sets. (gsnPlotNetwork(), pick_MappedGeneSymbol())
  + Several plotting-associated functions have now been changed to internal, non-exported functions. (makeLeafSizeLegend(), makeNodeSizeLegend(), make2ColorLegend(), make1ColorLegend(), etc.)  
  + Functions that formerly set graphical parameters through par() now backup the original parameters before doing so, and restore them automatically through a call to on.exit(par(.par.orig)) (gsnHierarchicalDendrogram(), gsnPlotNetwork(), make1ColorLegend(), make2ColorLegend(), makeLeafSizeLegend(), makeNodeSizeLegend(), and renderCircularDendrogram()). 
  
  

# GSNA 0.1.2
* This version is the second submission version to CRAN.
* Fixes three main NOTE issues:
  1. Use of .plt instead of .plt.leg for make1ColorLegend() and make2ColorLegend()
  2. The 'lost braces' problem.
  3. Excessive package size, due largely to the use of SVG format in the vignette graphics. PNGs are used instead.
* There remain some additional NOTES, generated by devtools::check_rhub(), but they may not be important.
* Additional fixes.
  + Fixed a bug in scoreLFMatrix_C() that hard-coded e_precision = 12. It now works properly.
  + Fixed a bug in gsnPlotNetwork() & gsnHierarchicalDendrogram() that prevented proper rendering of PNG format outputs.

# GSNA 0.1.1
* This is (hopefully) the first public CRAN release version.

# GSNA 0.1.0

* This is the development version prior to CRAN submission.

